What can we learn about generosity and trust from Jehovah's use of the Holy Spirit?
First, let's consider generosity.
If you had a monopoly on all the energy and fuel in the universe,
would you distribute it freely and generously, or would you charge the highest price possible for it by Galen?
Well, what example does our father set when it comes to providing his Holy Spirit?
Please note the inspired words of the Apostle John at John chapter 3,
and notice with me, please, verse 34. John 334 there it says,
for the one whom God sent speaks the sayings of God,
for he, Jehovah, does not give the Spirit sparingly.
Now, the new American Bible says here, he does not ration his gift of the Spirit.
Can you think of Bible examples from the Hebrew scriptures when Jehovah gave his Holy Spirit generously?
Bezelel was filled with the power of God.
Joshua was full of the Spirit of wisdom. Jehovah's Spirit empowered Samson.
What about in the Greek scriptures?
Well, John the baptizer was filled with Holy Spirit even from before birth,
and then there was the anointing of Jesus' disciples with Holy Spirit on Pentecost 33 CE,
which is referred to in today's text.
Acts 2 verse 4 says that those disciples all became filled with Holy Spirit and started to speak in different languages.
Of course, Jehovah uses his Holy Spirit to accomplish different things in harmony with his purpose,
but there is no doubt that he provides it generously.
Well, what about in our day?
Jesus' words reveal one of the ways that Holy Spirit is used in our behalf.
If you're still there in the book of John, notice Jesus' words in John chapter 14 verses 16 and 17.
He said, and I will ask the Father and He will give you another helper to be with you forever,
the Spirit of the truth.
This study note for John 14 16 says that the word helper could also mean
Comforter, Encourager, Advocate.
Well, how can Holy Spirit be a Comforter?
Verse 26 mentions the helper, the Holy Spirit.
That one will teach you all things and bring back to your minds all the things I told you.
Holy Spirit can help us to remember.
It can bring back to our minds.
What does it help us to remember?
Well, many times it's comforting thoughts from God's word itself.
Consider just one news item from JW.org.
In December 2021,
Pewter and his wife Maya received a three-year suspended prison sentence for discussing religious
materials with their friends.
When asked if he could recall an occasion when Jehovah helped him, Pewter said,
I recall a time when I prayed for Holy Spirit, and then I remembered a thought from John 1028,
where it says, no one will snatch them out of my hand.
Reflecting on that point made me feel strong and happy.
I could sense that my Father was right by my side.
As a result, I felt calmer and more confident.
There it is, Jehovah comforting one of his servants with his Holy Spirit.
Now, in what situations do you need the Holy Spirit to be a comforter,
encourager, or an advocate?
We all know our own plague, our own pain.
Jehovah does too, and he will use his Holy Spirit to help us display love, joy, peace, patience,
mildness, goodness, faith, self-control, or other qualities that we need in our service to him.
Although Jehovah has a monopoly on Holy Spirit, he isn't stingy.
The greater our need for Holy Spirit, the greater his generosity.
Even though 8 million of Jehovah's servants may be requesting his Spirit,
it doesn't drive up the price.
Holy Spirit is a free gift.
Well, what is the lesson for us?
Let's allow Jehovah to tell us through his inspired word.
Proverbs chapter 3 verses 27 and 28.
How can we imitate Jehovah's generosity?
Proverbs 3, 27 says,
Do not withhold good from those to whom you should give it if it is within your power to help.
Do not say to your neighbor, go away.
Come back later.
I will give it to you tomorrow.
If you can give it now.
The lesson.
Be generous like Jehovah.
Fill the needs of others.
What's the second point that we can learn from Jehovah's use of Holy Spirit?
Well, trust.
How does Jehovah distribute his Spirit?
We find a clue at Philippians chapter 1 verse 19.
Philippians chapter 1 verse 19.
There it says,
For I know that this will result in my salvation
through your supplication and with the support of the Spirit of Jesus Christ.
What does that mean?
The Spirit of Jesus Christ.
Well, the study note on the Spirit of Jesus Christ says,
apparently this refers to Jesus' use of God's Holy Spirit or active force.
The study note continues.
Acts 2.33 says that Jesus received the promised Holy Spirit from the Father.
At Philippians 1 verse 11,
Paul prayed that Christians might be filled with righteous fruit,
which is through Jesus Christ to God's glory and praise.
We note it says,
Ever since Jesus was resurrected and he ascended to heaven,
God has used him to supply the needs of Christians on earth.
That no doubt includes pouring out God's Holy Spirit.
That's a lot of trust.
Well, it was Pentecost 33 CE.
The first time that the Son of God used God's Holy Spirit in behalf of Jehovah's,
that he used it to accomplish Jehovah's will.
Well, notice Colossians chapter 1 verses 15 and 16.
There it says regarding the Son of God,
he is the image of the invisible God,
the first born of all creation,
because by means of him,
all other things were created in the heavens and on the earth.
Jehovah, the creator,
used his master worker to bring everything else into existence.
Did Jesus need to use Jehovah's Holy Spirit to accomplish what he had been assigned?
That's obvious.
The book Come Be My Follower page 131 paragraph 8 says,
in some respects, we might liken this cooperation between Father and Son to that of an architect,
working with a builder or contractor who brings the architects' designs to reality.
Is that evidence of trust by Jehovah? Clearly.
Jehovah gave his Son the materials and the training to accomplish an assigned task.
Well, what's the lesson for us?
We find a principle at 2 Timothy chapter 2 verses 1 and 2.
2 Timothy 2 verses 1 and 2.
There it says,
Paul writing, under inspiration to Timothy,
he said,
you therefore, my child,
keep on acquiring power in the undeserved kindness that is in Christ Jesus.
And the things you heard for me that were supported by many witnesses,
these things entrust to faithful men who in turn will be adequately qualified
to teach others for generations of teachers and learners.
The Apostle Paul, Timothy, faithful men and still others, the lesson for us,
continue to train, continue to delegate, continue to trust.
So what have we considered?
Jehovah is generous with his use of Holy Spirit.
We should be generous with our time and possessions.
Jehovah trusts his Son to pour out his precious Holy Spirit.
We should delegate responsibility and trust others to fulfill their assignments.
Indeed, the Holy Spirit is a precious free gift from our generous Father.
May we all continue to beg for it.
Trusting fully and the one who can, according to his power that is operating in us,
do more than super abundantly beyond all the things we ask or conceive.